sql-statement: add ADMIN ddl statements (#3587)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md

|     42 | mysql   | expr_pushdown_blacklist | create table             | public       |         3 |       41 |         0 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | 2020-08-09 10:17:18 | synced |
|     40 | mysql   | stats_top_n             | create table             | public       |         3 |       39 |         0 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | synced |
|     38 | mysql   | bind_info               | create table             | public       |         3 |       37 |         0 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | synced |
|     36 | mysql   | default_roles           | create table             | public       |         3 |       35 |         0 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | synced |
|     34 | mysql   | role_edges              | create table             | public       |         3 |       33 |         0 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | 2020-08-09 10:17:17 | synced |
+--------+---------+-------------------------+--------------------------+--------------+-----------+----------+-----------+---------------------+---------------------+--------+
10 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

> You may limit the number of rows shown by specifying a number and where condition. i.e.

Reviewer: how about describing more on how to read the output of `SCHEMA_STATE`?

Author: I have added a better example in https://github.com/pingcap/docs/pull/3587/commits/d4bd51f4aa280db62117b6d494e6182c3de6a767

PTAL, thx :-)

---
title: ADMIN SHOW DDL [JOBS|QUERIES] | TiDB SQL Statement Reference
summary: An overview of the usage of ADMIN for the TiDB database.

> aliases: ['/docs/dev/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin/','/docs/dev/reference/sql/statements/admin/']

Reviewer 2: We can't put the same aliases in two files (`sql-statement-admin-show-ddl.md` and `sql-statement-admin.md`) at the same time. This might cause an error for the original links.

Author: I've removed it, this was an error.

## Examples

### `ADMIN SHOW DDL`

To view the currently running DDL jobs, use `ADMIN SHOW DDL`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW DDL;
```

```sql
mysql> ADMIN SHOW DDL;
+------------+--------------------------------------+---------------+--------------+--------------------------------------+-------+
| SCHEMA_VER | OWNER_ID                             | OWNER_ADDRESS | RUNNING_JOBS | SELF_ID                              | QUERY |
+------------+--------------------------------------+---------------+--------------+--------------------------------------+-------+
|         26 | 2d1982af-fa63-43ad-a3d5-73710683cc63 | 0.0.0.0:4000  |              | 2d1982af-fa63-43ad-a3d5-73710683cc63 |       |
+------------+--------------------------------------+---------------+--------------+--------------------------------------+-------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

### `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS`

To view all the results in the current DDL job queue (including tasks that are running and waiting to be run) and the last ten results in the completed DDL job queue, use `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS;
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sql
```

- For desctuctive changes such as dropping an index or dropping a table, the `SCHEMA_STATE` will change to `none` when the job is complete. For addative changes, the `SCHEMA_STATE` will change to `public`.

To limit the number of rows shown by specifying a number and where condition. i.e.

```sql
ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS [NUM] [WHERE where_condition];
```

* `NUM`: to view the last `NUM` results in the completed DDL job queue. If not specified, `NUM` is by default 10.
* `WHERE`: to add filter conditions.

### `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOB QUERIES`

To view the original SQL statements of the DDL job corresponding to `job_id`, use `ADMIN SHOW DDL JOB QUERIES`:

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
ADMIN SHOW DDL JOBS;
ADMIN SHOW DDL JOB QUERIES 51;
```

```
mysql> ADMIN SHOW DDL JOB QUERIES 51;
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| QUERY                                                        |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
| CREATE TABLE t1 (id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY auto_increment) |
+--------------------------------------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.02 sec)
```

> You can only searches the running DDL job corresponding to `job_id` and the last ten results in the DDL history job queue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can only search the running DDL job corresponding to `job_id` within the last ten results in the DDL history job queue.
```
